This lecture we're going to create the book pages that go between our book covers.
So let's go ahead and get started.
The first thing we want to do is we want to go ahead and add a new layer above all of our other layers.
Then using my rectangular marquee tool on the select a rectangle out just like this then I'm going to
go ahead and select the color.
So I'm going to grab this color but make it a little bit lighter so it's sort of a yellowish maybe actually
come down to the ellos.
So there's my color number right there.
OK.
And then I'm going go ahead and fill the shape in.
Next I'm gonna go ahead and grab a darker version of this color and come up into my greens.
So it's a little bit more of a color from the shadows.
Hit OK then using my brush tool.
I'm going to go ahead and making sure that I still have my rectangular selected.
So I can't paint outside of it.
I'm going to paint some lines through here that are going to be my book pages.
So I'm a click up here.
Hold down shift and then I can paint a straight line all the way through.
So again you want to click and you can print a line all the way through.
Now if you don't click again what will happen is if you come back up to here and then you hold down
shift and pain again.
It's going to paint that line all the way across there.
So you want to make sure that you click once before you do that.
Or another way of getting around this is if you paint down here well then you don't have to cook again
you can just click here and then paint across here because it will connect these two lines together
except you can't see it because it's often to your document.
So as long as you're zigzagging back and forth from top to bottom you should be fine.
Now these don't have to be perfectly spaced out.
It's actually better if they're not perfectly spaced out.
Next let's go ahead and grab an even darker color and we're going to come down into oranges and make
this a little bit more saturated.
OK.
Using my brush tool and I'm going to wring my bra size up just a little bit and I'm going to paint at
30 percent opacity.
I'm going to go ahead and paint along the edges of some of these lines in here.
I want to bring that bar size up just a little bit more.
So I want to paint along the edge just like that and this is just going to be creating a little bit
of a cast shadow from some of these groups of pages because in between each one of these lines there's
more than just one page.
It's just that these are kind of the groups of all the pages if you've ever looked at a book you'll
notice that there are sort of groups together and then stapled together and then sewn into the spine.
So that's basically what each one of these are and we want to create a little bit more of a realistic
look by adding some Shatto in there.
Next let's go ahead and select our original book page color.
And then we're going to grab an even lighter version of that so maybe about there come a little bit
more towards our yellow's.
So it's a little bit more saturated and we actually might make it a little bit lighter.
So but there should be good but I'll go ahead and paint.
And I'm still painting at 30 percent of Pasotti I'm going to go ahead and paint some lines across here
for highlights.
You can also go in there and hand paint in a few little lines on top of your and start layering in on
that opacity.
That way we just get a little bit more texture in these book covers maybe the edges of these books are
tattered or they're ripped.
And so we might be getting a little bit more texture in there.
All right.
Perfect.
So now we have all of our book pages what we want to do now is we want to go ahead and use the Transform
Tool on this layer and we're going to go ahead and first shrink it down a little bit maybe two about
there will probably get shrunk down more but for now that should be good.
We're going to go ahead and rotate this.
And we want to rotate it to a 90 degree angle and you can do that by holding down the shift and rotating
until it looks about straight and it'll click right into place.
Then we want to go ahead and drag this down to about here.
We're going to go and shrink that down a tiny bit more.
So it's about the size of our book now going to go ahead and hit enter.
So now we have about the size and the placement of where we want this are going to go out and drag this
underneath this layer.
So now I can actually place it in there.
So then turn Transform Tool back on.
Right clicking and coming to distort.
We're going to go ahead and move these corners to the correct position until we get this looking the
way we want it.
So I'm going to move that to up there.
Move this out to here and move this one out here.
I think something like that should look good.
We'll go ahead and enter.
Great.
So now we have those book pages in there.
I can also go ahead and use my lasso tool to cut off a little bit of this edge over here because the
line isn't necessarily straight.
It's a little bit wider over here than it is over here.
So go and hit delete.
I think that works much better now.
Also what we want to do is we want to go ahead and add in a little bit more of a textured edge on the
edge of our book pages.
So it looks more realistic.
So using my research we're going to go ahead and just start erasing out some lines like this and that
just starts to add in a little bit more of some shape on the edge of those pages.
And in fact what you can do is you can even curve this in a little bit because you'll see a lot of the
times if you look at reference books actually curve and on the pages.
I think it has something to do with the binding.
I'm not sure but I think it makes our book look more interesting and we can go ahead and read our race
and all of those little sheafs so that each page looks like an individual page.
All right.
Great.
So then zoom out and see how that looks awesome.
I think that looks pretty darn good.
Now lastly what I want to do is I want to go ahead and add a shadow on these pages being cast from the
top cover.
The way I'm going to do this is I'm going to switch up to my top cover layer.
I'm also noticing that this got messed up a little bit when we erased it.
So what I'm gonna do is just select this color here and I'm just going to brush in a little bit more
of a shape in there to help that out.
And then I'm going to come back to creating my shadow.
So the way we're going to create a shadow is by a whole known control or command.
If you're on a Mac select the shape of your top book cover by clicking the thumbnail then I'm going
to go ahead and add a new layer underneath my book cover layer above my pages player then using the
color black.
I'm going to go and fill that in and sensus underneath our book cover you can't see it yet but once
I use my grab a move tool and use the arrow keys on a keyboard to nudge this down I'm going another
down to about there.
Now you can see our shadow next to what we need to do is we need to go ahead and cut off these edges
that aren't above our book pages.
So I'm going to go ahead and select my book page shape and then I'm going to go ahead and hit Control
shift.
I invert the selection and then hit delete to delete away all of those edges that we don't want.
So now we have a nice shadow in there on our book pages.
And lastly what I want to do is I'm going to bring down the opacity and I'm going to bring it down to
about 95 percent then using my erase tool and I'm going to switch over to a soft edged brush to do this.
I'm going to go ahead and erase away these edges at 20 percent opacity.
So I'm just going to erase right along the bottom edge just to soften that a little bit so it's not
such a hard edge.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and zoom out and see how that looks.
I think it looks pretty dang good.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture we went ahead and we created the pages for our book as well as a cast shadow from
the top surface of our book in the next lecture we're going to go ahead and create some ornate iron
work for our book as well as a gem that's going to go on the top surface.
I really hope you enjoy this lecture and I'm looking forward to seeing you in the next one.